Course Syllabus for "CUST104: Business Communications "
-------------------------------------------------------

It would be nearly impossible to find the first person who noted that
*good service is good business*. However, if you want to find someone
who said it recently, just ask any businessperson about the relationship
between business and service. Adam Toporek, writing on the blog
*Customers That Stick*, recently asked 19 business experts to define
customer service. “Customer service is the act of providing your
customer with something they need, want, or value,” one expert
responded. Another said that it is the “deliberate practice to put
ourselves in our customers’ shoes.” The definition Toporek recorded that
best represents the approach this course takes toward the subject is:
“Customer service means NOT reading from a script but, instead, reading
the customer.” This course will not tell you what to say during your
business communications or when to say it. Instead, you will learn how
to plan, produce, and perform acts of communication that satisfy the
most demanding audience: your customers. Communication is the stage on
which customer service superstars perform, so this course begins by
taking you onstage to familiarize you with the communication process and
the elements that influence it, influence you, and influence your
audience. Next, the course takes you out into the audience, teaching you
the techniques needed to adjust your performance based on who you see
out there and what you hear coming from them. The course then addresses
your actual performance, providing guidelines for good writing, to
ensure you have an excellent script, and good speaking, so that your
performance is a success. The course concludes by considering the
customer service equivalent of the set, props, and costumes: the visual
aspects of the customers’ experience that frame you in their minds and
create lasting impressions long after you have left the stage.

### Learning Outcomes

Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to:  

-   recognize the types of communication that impact customer service;
-   differentiate between customer types and needs by applying marketing
    segmentation techniques;
-   simplify information using a variety of communication formats;
-   use memory aids to help you retain, recall, and present information;
-   write and speak using effective introductions, conclusions, and
    easy-to-follow organizational patterns;
-   apply active listening habits to respond effectively to face-to-face
    and telephone exchanges; and
-   create positive visual impressions in personal presentation and
    product displays.

### Course Requirements

In order to take this course, you must:  
    
 √    have access to a computer;  
  
 √    have continuous broadband Internet access;  
  
 √    have the ability/permission to install plug-ins or software
(including Adobe Reader, Flash, and Java);  
  
 √    have the ability to download and save files and documents to a
computer;  
  
 √    have the ability to open Microsoft files and documents (.doc,
.ppt, .xls, etc.);  
  
 √    have competency in the English language; and  
  
 √    have read the [Saylor Student
Handbook](http://www.saylor.org/site/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/Saylor-StudentHandbook.pdf). 

### Course Information

Welcome to CUST104: Business Communications. General information on this
course and its requirements can be found below.  
    
 **Course Designer: **P. Wynn Norman  
    
 **Primary Resources: **This course is composed of a range of different
free, online materials, from short readings to narrated PowerPoint
presentations. However, this course makes primary use of the following
list of materials:  

-   [*Business Communication for
    Success*](http://www.saylor.org/site/textbooks/Business%20Communication%20for%20Success.pdf);
-   [*Stand Up, Speak Out – The Practice and Ethics of Public
    Speaking*](http://www.saylor.org/site/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Stand-Up-Speak-Out-The-Practice-and-Ethics-of-Public-Speaking.pdf)*;
    and*
-   [*SkillsYouNeed.com*](http://www.skillsyouneed.com/)*.*

**Requirements for Completion:** In order to complete this course, you
will need to work through each unit and complete all of the assigned
materials, including discussion board and portfolio posts and unit
quizzes.  
    
 In order to pass this course, you will need to complete the final exam
and earn 70% or higher. Your score on the exam will be tabulated as soon
as you finish it. If you do not pass the exam, you may take it again
following a 14-day waiting period.  
    
 Note that you will only receive an official grade on your final exam.
However, in order to adequately prepare for the exam, you will need to
work through all the readings, lectures, and practice assignments in the
course.  
    
 **Time Commitment:** This course should take approximately **41.5
hours **to complete. Each unit includes a time advisory that lists the
amount of time you are expected to spend on each subunit. These should
help you plan your time accordingly. It may be useful to take a look at
these time advisories, determine how much time you have over the next
few weeks to complete each unit, and then set goals for yourself. For
example, unit 1 should take approximately 5.75 hours. Perhaps you can
sit down with your calendar and decide to complete subunit 1.1 – a total
of 1.5 hours – on Monday night, subunit 1.2 – a total of 1.75 hours – on
Tuesday night, etc.  
    

